Hello and welcome to this Python tutorial.
So in the previous tutorial we prepared
the training set and the test set
and today in this quick tutorial,
we're gonna get the total number of users and movies.
So why do we need to do that?
Well that is because of what we're gonna do
in the next tutorial.
In the next tutorial,
we are going to convert our training sets and test set
that we just imported previously
and we're going to convert them into a matrix
where the line are going to be the users,
the columns are going to be the movies,
and the cells are going to be the ratings.
And we are going to create such a matrix
for the training set and another one for the test set.
And besides, in each of these two matrices,
we want to include all the users
and all the movies from the original data set.
And if in the training set that we just imported,
a user didn't rate a movie,
well we'll put a zero into the cell of the matrix
that corresponds to this user and that movie.
So to recap, we're gonna make two matrices,
one for the training set and one for the test set.
These matrices will have the same number of users
and the same number of movies
so they will have the same number of lines
and the same number of columns
and in these two matrices, each cell of indexes U, I,
where U is the user and I is the movie,
each cell UI will get a rating of the movie I
by the user U and if this user U
didn't rate the movie I, we'll put a zero.
So that's what we're gonna make in the next tutorial
and we're gonna make a function to do this
and so as you understood, since these two matrices
will each one contain the total number of users
and the total number of movies,
well in this tutorial, we need to get
this total number of users and this total number of movies.
And so now, you might be wondering,
well it's easy to get the total number of users.
We just need to click on the training set,
scroll down to the bottom and take 943
because it corresponds to the last user
and same for the movie, to get the total number of movie,
we need to get this 1330
because it corresponds to the last movie.
Indeed, if I also open the test set,
and if I scroll down to the end,
well we can check that the total number of users
is still 943 because here in the test set it goes up to 462.
So for the number of users, it would be tempting
to say that the total number of users is 943.
So okay, we could do that
but the code we are making right now,
I want it to be applicable to the five train test folds
that are in the database.
Not only for this first one here,
you want base and you want test.
I want also this code to be applicable to U2, U3, U4 and U5.
And why is that?
It's in case you wanna practice
and do K fold cross validation with these other sets.
And if we put the number of users equal to 943,
well that won't work for the other sets,
because the users and the movies
are not distributed the same way.
So not only we're gonna take the max of the users
in the training set, but that's not enough
because actually in these splits, well it could be
totally possible that the user that has the highest
user ID could be in the test set as opposed to
what we observe here where the highest user ID
is in the training set, but actually the splits
are random and so we could totally have
the highest user ID in the test set
for one of these pairs of training and test sets.
So that's why now what we're gonna do to get the total
number of users and the total number of movies
is take the maximum of the maximum user ID
in the training set and the maximum user ID in the test set.
And by doing that you will be sure that we get the total
number of users and the total number of movies
that we will need in the next tutorial to make
this matrix of users in lines and movies in columns.
So let's do this.
Now that we get it, it's going to be very simple.
I'm going back to variable explorer
and so we're gonna make two new variables
nb_users which is going to be the total number of users and
nb_movies which is going to be
the total number of movies
and so as I just said, for the total number of users,
we're gonna take the max of the maximum user ID
in the training set and so that is the max of
training set and then in brackets we need to input
the index of the user column and that is index zero
and we need to take all the lines so we're gonna add here
column and comma so this training set, column, comma, zero
is the first column of the training set,
that is the users, all the users,
and we're taking the max so we're definitely taking
the maximum user ID of this column.
So okay, and now we need to do the same for the test set
because the maximum user ID might be in the test set.
So we're gonna do the same.
We're gonna take this maximum of the training set,
paste that here, and replace training set by test set.
Here we go.
Okay, and now we need to add something very important,
it's to force this maximum number here to be an integer.
Otherwise we'll get an error.
I actually experienced that so we have to convert
this number into an integer and do this we're going to use
the int function and put all these maximums inside
this int function.
Okay and now that should be okay.
I'm going to select this line and execute
and as expected we get that the
total number of users is 943.
But it might not be work the same way for the other
train test splits so we have to use this in case
you want to apply this code for the
other training and test sets.
Okay so now we're gonna do the same for
the total number of movies and actually
this is going to be very simple.
We just need to copy this part of line,
copy, and then paste that here
and of course here what we're gonna do is
replace the index of the column of the users here,
that is zero and here by the index of column of the movies
and if we go back to our training set or test set
we all remember that the column that corresponds
to the movies is the second column
and so it has index one.
So what we simply need to do is to replace
the index zero her by one and same for here,
we replace the index zero by one.
And that's actually all.
We are ready to get the total number of movies.
Let's see if this was 1330.
Maybe that in the test set, some user rated a movie
of higher index than this one.
If that's the case that will give you even more motivation
to do this, taking the max of the max.
So I'm gonna press okay.
Let's remember 1330.
I'm going to select this line and execute
and see the maximum movie ID is 1682.
So we had to take the max of the max because we don't know
if this movie ID was in the training set or in the test set
and actually we can check it out.
We just need to select this to get the maximum movie ID
in the training set and that is 1682 so that's the one.
The maximum movie ID was in the training set
and if you want to look at the maximum movie ID
in the test set, that was 1591.
So it could have been in the test set.
That's not the case for this first train test split but it
could be the other way for the other train test splits.
So that's absolutely necessary to do it this way
if you want to apply five fold cross validation
which I would highly encourage if you want to make
your model even more robust when applying
some parameter tuning next to it.
Alright so we get what we wanted and so now
we're ready to move on to the next step
which is to convert our training set and our test set
which so far has the format of the first column
being the users, the second column being the movies,
the third column being the ratings,
and the fourth column being the time stamps,
into a matrix where the lines are the users,
the columns are the movies and the timestamps are gone
because we don't care of the timestamps.
And each cell will contain the rating
of the movie I by the user U
and if the user U didn't rate the movie I,
we'll put a zero.
So we'll do all this in the next tutorial
and until then, enjoy learning.